# Helpful Scripts

Several additional scripts are included with the MQLib that may prove useful to researchers:

* [scripts/benchmark.py](benchmark.py): A script that can be run to perform the LINPACK 100 benchmark on a computer, measuring its flop count. Please see the comments at the top of the script file for how to perform the benchmark (setup involves downloading and compiling Fortran code within the current directory).
* [scripts/downloadAllGraphs.py](downloadAllGraphs.py): A script to download all graphs from the publicly accessible `mqlibinstances` S3 bucket. This script can be run with `python downloadAllGraphs.py outputFolder`. Running this script requires the `boto` python package to be installed (though it does not require an Amazon Web Services account); see the boto installation instructions in the [Reproducible Parallel Computation with Amazon Web Services guide](../Cloud/README.md) for details about how to install boto. **Warning**: Even though the graphs are zipped, this script will download and store roughly 10 GB of files.
* [scripts/downloadGraphHeaders.py](downloadGraphHeaders.py): A script to download the headers of all graphs in the publicly accessible `mqlibinstances` S3 bucket and to output the resulting csv file to the screen. A common use case would be `python downloadGraphHeaders.py > headers.csv`. As with downloadAllGraphs.py, running this script requires the `boto` python package to be installed.
* [scripts/downloadGraph.py](downloadGraph.py): A script to download a single graph from the publicly accessible `mqlibinstances` S3 bucket, outputting its contents. A common use case would be redirecting this output to a file with something like `python downloadGraph.py g000002.zip > g000002.zip`. As with downloadAllGraphs.py, running this script requires the `boto` python package to be installed.
* [scripts/list_graphs.py](list_graphs.py): A script to list the names of all graphs stored in the publicly accessible `mqlibinstances` S3 bucket. Running this script requires the `boto` python package to be installed (though it does not require an Amazon Web Services account); see the boto installation instructions in the [Reproducible Parallel Computation with Amazon Web Services guide](../Cloud/README.md) for details about how to install boto. Note that this list is also available through the `graphname` column of the [data/metrics.csv](../data/metrics.csv) file.
* [scripts/scaling.py](scaling.py): A script to test the empirical memory scaling properties of the MQLib heuristics by testing them on complete graphs and sparse Erdos-Renyi graphs, both with randomly selected edge weights. The script takes as arguments a file with the list of heuristics and then the sizes of graphs to test. It outputs the scaling information in csv format to the screen. A standard invocation would be `python scaling.py ../data/heuristics.txt 100 300 1000 3000 10000 30000 > scaling.py` -- this must be run from the scripts folder. By default the script limits complete graphs to contain no more than 3,000 nodes and Erdos-Renyi graphs to contain no fewer than 1,000 nodes; these limits can be adjusted by changing the `minERGraphSize` and `maxCompleteGraphSize` variables in the script. The output of this script used in computational experiments for the paper can be found at [data/scaling.csv](../data/scaling.csv).
